Welcome back to another video in this we are going to be seeing how do we removing the dead JavaScript?
Now, in the previous video we saw how to be doing this.
Yes.
And this time is going to be the similar thing for JavaScript.
Now, let me try to first explain the concept of tree shaking.
So, for example, I'm going to be taking a practical clear.
So let's try for example, the tree is a map tree.
And when I say tree, you can consider this something like a module, maybe like a decoding module or
a dash module.
So in this module you're going to be having a lot of functions, right?
So you have like the mod function by you have multiplication, subtract, average sum and so on.
Now you might not be using the entire code, you might be using just a couple of functions of example
the ones marked in green, or we're just three of them being used and all the other functions are not
really used part of this math tree.
So the concept is when I do the tree checking, all the unused dependencies should be thrown out from
here.
So it should look something like this.
So in the end, when I do my build, my module should only be containing these functions which are being
used actually in my application.
So that is basically the concept of tree shaking.
Okay.
So there are a couple of rules to be implemented when you are following the tree shaking.
So the rules are listed right here.
The first rule is that we need to be implementing the modules in the ESX format.
Now when I say yes, that basically means using the import and the export syntax we should not be doing
using the common format of required.
Okay.
So that's the first one.
And the second one is we need to be using the Webpack production mode.
So far, we have been running all of this from the start till now in the development mode.
And finally, we are going to be seeing the production mode as well.
We can sort of implement tree shaking in the development mode, but it does not really matter.
And I would suggest you to do it all in the production mode, because once you go into the production
mode, your output is not going to be readable and it's going to be harder to debug in development.
Okay.
So with that said, let's go back to our code and see how do we implementing this and what exactly are
the problems currently.
So I already have a new folder created here.
9.3 and in this I'm going to be implementing CLI shaking.
You can continue on with the last folder.
No major changes.
Okay.
With that said, let's move on and open up our lives folder.
And in this we have a function called us.
Sure did.
Now I'm going to be exporting another function from here.
So let's call that function, dummy function.
So it's not going to be doing a lot.
Just console dialogue.
I'm a dummy function, so that's pretty much it.
So with that done, let me just try to run the build.
I need to be moving up a folder, so I'll go to the 9.3 folder and see and PM run def and try to analyze
how baby looks like.
So this is the function name.
Let me just go ahead and copy that.
So with that, let's just open our disk folder and try to find the particular build.
So for example, it's not going to be in the course bundle for sure, but let's try to go to this index
target.
I'm going to go doing a control F and search for dummy function.
And you can see here that it's actually being imported.
So we have this dummy function right here.
So that's the function definition.
And this was the console dot log that was supposed to be printed by that function.
In short, this function is being imported, although it's not being used anywhere.
Now just imagine, instead of just a consolidated log, this was an entire library, or maybe like a
really big function.
So this is just going to be wastage of resources, right?
Your bundle size is going to increase.
So how do we get rid of this?
So to get rid of this, we are going to be leveraging the production mode of the pack.
So how does that work?
Well, it's quite simple.
We just have to go to our package, Jason.
And in this, you can see when we are running our NPM run dev, we run it in the development mode.
So for the first time, we are going to be switching over to the production mode.
So as a production.
Just like that.
So just make sure your spelling is right for production.
And let's go ahead and save that.
And I'm going to be running NPM run dev once again.
So let's say NPM run Dev.
Okay, let's just give that a second because this time it's running in production.
So there are a lot of optimizations that are going to be happening behind the scene.
So it's going to take slightly longer as well.
Okay.
So with that done, let's see how our file looks like.
So there are a lot of changes here.
So you can see that the file names has been changed as well and is more optimized.
And this was the bundle in which you had that consolidated log earlier.
Now, if I tried to find the consolidated log, I might not be finding it by the exact name of the function.
But if I just try to find the log using the exact log message.
So if I do a control F and just try to find it, I see that it's no longer available.
So this is exactly how tree shaking works and it's automatically been implemented in the production
world, although you did not really have to do a lot of configuration here.
But I just wanted to show you behind the scene as what is the problem that was there and how it was
being solved in the production mode.
And this is also going to be very important if you're like taking some interview and they ask you about
tree shaking or how you can be optimizing your base.
So this is a very good answer to be saying to your interviewer.
All right.
So that was a prototype.
And that's about it, what we're going to be doing in the production mode.
Let's take a look at the differences between the production and the development mode in the next video
and how we can be segregating our pack mode based on this mode.